---
title: Readings 2
description: My response for readings 2
date: 2026-02-27
tags: [""]
---

The chapter begins by explaining how the digital realm has become embedded in our daily lives and is reshaping what we consider “home.” I definitely feel that it’s no longer possible to fully escape technology and we've become dependent on it. Most people don’t hesitate to accept cookies or check the box under “terms of service” without thinking twice. Our data is constantly being collected and shared, now more than ever. The chapter mentions a thermostat that won’t function unless you agree to its contract. That example really stood out to me because it shows how much power technology holds over us. We interact with the visible, usable surface of devices, but rarely think about the software and systems operating underneath. This connects back to the first two readings about how intricate technology truly is and how easily we take its functionality for granted. I’ve received one too many settlement checks in the mail due to data leaks, which makes the issue feel very real. I also think about how social media apps are tailored to my interests, and honestly so is almost everything on my phone. The chapter discusses surveillance capitalism, that our data is extracted and analyzed to better market products to us. I notice how Instagram ads often show me exactly what I’ve been looking for (I’ve spent money on ads too). My feed feels curated to reflect my interests, and because of that, I rarely question it. Looking back, social media has likely shaped my opinions and interests more than I realize. The article about Facebook discusses how advertisers use racial proxies - categories that correlate with race to target users. That makes me think about the kind of online bubble we exist in. We are constantly shown content that aligns with who we are or what we already like. As a result we may miss out on news, and perspectives that fall outside of that algorithmic filter. 
